I believe that any moderately intelligent person has, deeply comprising their essence, way at their very core, a problem that they can not solve, but really, really want to.  It can be anything, but typically revolves around a thing that happened in the can not be changed or avoided.  Loss, death, death is just loss.  Pretty much just loss.

Becoming fully rid of this is, unfortunately, and perhaps this is an idea of my own subjection: it is impossible.  The issue is not simply forgetting the loss itself, it is all the associations: what was, what could have been, and what can not be.  It is a comparator, a bench mark on a record we're programmed to keep, and without such comparisons the fabric of our minds, the relativity our experiences have within themselves, would tear away.

People have many tasks they set themselves to.  Problem solving is only one form, but for the sake of reprieve, I'd like to take a moment to express my gratitude for learning, playing, relaxing, and consuming.  They are all wonderful things, for glorious days.  But, to return to the topic, problem solving is also an activity that often takes our times, and occasionally, on those sad and solemn days when the stars once aligned drift apart like an old group of friends, and all the happy trees and clouds appear to have lost all empathy for you.. it is on those days we are trying to solve the problem which lies at our core.  And it is failing, and will always fail.  Further, it proves that any impetus to go about doing other things is clearly flawed!  Why spend life trying to solve problems if the big ones are already impossible?  Perhaps we can simplify a few pieces of this giant puzzle, but if it's already missing a few, what's the point?  If life is really just a series of problems that can never end.. perhaps happiness is merely ignorance.

From this dark place, there is truth, a very deep and potentially cosmic truth.  A truth that might just poke and jab and jaunt at every living being for all of eternity, no matter the technology or philosophy that may come.  It is a simple cross section between a living beings ability to solve it's own problems and the fact that our very existence is something of a fluke.  Even believing otherwise is not enough to erase a truth, locked into ones core which implies they weren't really intended to exist, and they don't have a purpose.  No matter the words a person may say they think or feel about a thing, one can not look at the suffering in their life or in the world and see a desirable meaning.  Even if it is for our greater benefit, suffering is too cruel to make up any desirable definition of purpose.  I don't wish to be ghoulish, but if you are resisting this thought, please remember that torture has not been for the guilty alone.  Innocent people have been hurt, to call that their purpose...

And so a mind will go on this way, on and on and on, a problem mind approaching problems the problem mind way.  It does not want to become a relaxed mind, because that wouldn't solve the problem.  In fact, the only thing which ever seems to push a problem mind towards a better mind set is either a good friend, or fear.  It's not the love of relaxing, but the fear of getting trapped in that dark place that makes me set aside my problem mind.

But then, if you're lucky, with a bit of practice... eventually, the relaxing, the playing, the learning.. eventually it'll occupy just enough of your mind to take majority share.  And suddenly, that mind will start, filling the ram like a heavy program, shifting the paradigm of your perspective, pushing away the other old mindset.  And why shouldn't it?  It performs a necessary function just as much as any other mindset, so it should have a turn.

Besides, what other choice is there?  Perhaps one could cast aside emotion, learn to control and not let any one mindset take over, let them all speak at once.  It would be cacophony though.  Nobody is that well aligned, nothing is so perfect that all minds could choose it at once.  They would simply argue, the way they already do whenever presented together.  Truly, perfection must be a life in which every emotion agrees on what to do, from beginning to end.

But, we live in a world dissected by the emotions and perspectives we set ourselves into, and it would be an act of utterly nonsensical human nobility to take responsibility for these tangential perspectives at the magnitude in which we could all start speaking the same language.

To make it worse, it would require many heroic people capable of jumping in to a mindset only halfly, speaking the language which paves the way out.  It is an overwhelming task in optimism.  In anything less, it's better to just disregard it entirely.

No, I don't believe in humanity on such a level.  I don't believe we will ever get ourselves acting with maturity on a massive scale, and I do believe that all perceived progress we've made towards this feat has been with so much force that it ultimately creates an equal and opposite reaction.  We may, briefly in the future, possess the image of such things, but it will be entirely a product of social constructs, and to call it anything less than the simple vice of superficiality would be just be repeating the generations mantra, a proof that a person does not actually own themselves.

There is hope though, thin, wavering, almost ghostly in it's etherial ways.  Small, lovely pockets.  They pop up, created by some form of magic, become infiltrated by opportunists, popularized for the sake of said opportunists, and then lose meaning.  These pockets happen all the time, and being in one is truly a miracle.  Creating one, perhaps that too, but it can't be forced.  They are luck, they are an idea meeting it's time, a series of waves momentarily syncing, they are the best parts of our lives, meant to be cherished.  They are, if nothing else, the good products of the incalculable outcomes of diversity.  Their beauty is the pieces that only align clearly when matched.

I wish I could give some kind of advice towards where to find these things, but then I would be the opportunist selling them out for popularity.  Perhaps I am.  Then again, it may be more good than bad if followed with some shmoopy b.s.  Only one way to find out, and it's a nice way to end this text, the best resolve I can offer.

If you have had one of these fortuitous bubbles, do your best to remember it fondly, you would only be biting the hands that feed to think in juxtapositions.  And if you are in search of finding a new one, perhaps the best thing you can do is diversify your experience?  Try on a new username, read a different kind of book.  I believe that it's less like fishing than it is like farming or stock markets, you're not tricking anything into happening, but patience is still key.  And most of all, don't be an asshole.  That's just true of all scenarios.

Seph
