First off, I would just like to post some form of trigger warning and apologize if any of the following information is undesirable.  This video covers some of the History leading up to WW2 and the Holocaust and a few major factors leading into Nazism.  This video in no way condones the beliefs of anti-Semites or Nazi apologists, but it does acknowledging the banality, the utter commonality, of the real human interactions and motivations which escalated to popular modern history's most regrettable atrocity.  To reiterate: If you are someone who doesn't want to imagine that Nazis and Jews were both groups made up of common humans, and instead wishes to believe one was perfectly evil and the other perfectly innocent, this video is not going to reinforce that impossibly simple fairytale.

So, strange question: Who do you think is worse, Hitler, or the people who followed him?

Well, that question is pretty straight forward, right?  The answer is pretty certainly Hitler.  It was his ideas, and his choices which led to so much suffering.  If he wasn't there, none of this would have happened.  But then again, if his followers weren't following, that would have done the trick too.  Then again, he could have called it off, but they couldn't.  So definitely Hitler.

So let's try again, a little more complex: Who is more to blame, Hitler, or the people who followed him?

Most people would right out say Hitler was more to blame and that most of the people following him, Nazis, were, at least relative to him, mere impressionable civilians.  Fighting for your motherland is the status quo.  Overall, intent does seem to play a very important role in guilt.  So before we jump to any conclusions, the first step is probably to set the scene.  Two scenes actually: the first being what civilians were seeing, and the second being what was actually happening.

But before we get into this, I'd like to say: There's going to be some History here, and I promise you it is worth your time.  An understanding of the rise of Nazism is one of the most pivotal Historical lessons a person can learn if they don't want to be a part of creating the next atrocity.  Further, judging by the way people so casually throw around phrases like "he's literally Hitler" and call WW2 veterans Nazis, it is very apparent that the message has been lost, and all that remains is a few slurs.  So please, if you have any desire to be a productive member of society, bare with me while I cover the basics of "Why Germany was so pissed" and "Why the Jews".

Flashback to Europe, just after WW1.  Pretty much every country involved is mentally, physically, spiritually, and financially exhausted.  They've been hemorrhaging resources trying to keep their citizens and borders in existence.  It was a really, really bad war and there were a lot of weapons in use which we now consider too inhumane for even our worst enemies, but it was finally over.

The next step was the Paris Peace Conference in 1919 where it was decided who would pay what amount for the reparations.  The decision ended up being rather spiteful, casting out [FIND RULES] in Germany's terms of surrender, and requiring the defeated powers to pay for the entirety of the damages.  But Austria, Hungary, and Turkey were totally broke, so they were exempt.  And Bulgaria had it's reparations canceled after paying a small fraction of it.  And for the most part, the blame ended up falling on Germany.  There is an interesting term for this called a Carthaginian peace, which is a lot like having someone pretend to like you because you have a gun to their head.

From here things continued to escalate between France and Germany.  When the Germans were unable to pay reparations with money, France demanded land, and ended up taking an area called the Ruhr valley which happened to be Germany's center for coal, iron, and steel.  The French occupied this land with soldiers and the Germans responded with a campaign of passive resistance in which approximately 130 German civilians were killed.  There was a lot of he said she said going on, but the basic gist of this is that neither one was owning up to anything and they were both acting rather petty.

Anyways, while the tensions between France and Germany were escalating, they were easing between Germany and the rest of the allies.  The demands for reparations were becoming more reasonable, with it eventually becoming split into a set of three bonds, the largest of which didn't actually have to be paid.  The reason it didn't actually have to be paid was because it was completely unreasonable, but the governments still had to act like it was real so the French populous could believe Germany was getting the punishment it deserved.  At the end of all this, the amount became something which historian consensus considers to be tolerable.  

But in the end, a fair bit of this top down historical information is merely interesting.  Most of the populous wasn't really keyed in on it, and it only describes the social climate for people who can put themselves into those shoes.  Now, this next part is going to be very much an over simplification because there is no way to reconcile all the experiences of an entire group of people into anything less than an anthology, but it's still important to recognize how this might feel to the layperson in Germany, and it goes something like this:

"Those snobby, smelly French people we've been fighting with since my grandparents were children are trying to finally do us in by enslaving us with these reparations!  They expect us to be giving them everything we have for the next 60 years!  Also they killed a whole bunch of my loved ones, including my best friend and that one guy Hans who was going to be a famous athlete, and we barely have enough resources to live half as well as we used to. Fuck them."

And just this would be enough to allow a super villain with a strange mustache to rise, but it was still many years until Hitler's part (1933), and things weren't yet as bad as they were going to get.

The next big source of discontentment comes from the Great Depression, which started in 1929 in the U.S.  The US was really the only country to "win" in WW1 having made a killing off selling weapons and resources to allies, and only barely entering the war with actual troops.  The result of this was that after WW1, USA had all the cash, so that's where Germany was borrowing the money for reparations that France and other allies were dependent on.  When the US stock market crashed, it cascaded outwards affecting pretty much every other country.  When Germany's economy collapsed their reparation payments became suspended and eventually canceled, but by now the damage was done.  A once proud people were shamed and hungry, burning money for warmth in a world filled with forces trying to take everything from them.

And here is where the last major player in the mix comes in, Jewish people.

During this time, many Jewish people were taking positions in what's called the "Middleman Minority."  The "Middleman Minority" is essentially the group of people who exist between the upper class oppressors and the middle to lower class oppressed.  They are the small group of people filling the jobs which are influential enough that the upper class doesn't want to give them to anyone with any reason to usurp them, but are still below the upper class doing themselves.  These jobs tend to revolve around the financial and media industries, things like bankers, economists, journalists, producers, and so on.  It is important that the cultures that fill this role must be more concerned with itself than whatever cultures are being oppressed by it.  It is also important to note that, historically, these groups have always been hated by everyone on both sides, not just the people whom they enable the oppression of.  And this is no different today.

Anyways, here is where the biggest lapse in judgment occurs, the logical fallacy at the core of what makes Nazism evil, and it is sadly a lesson that society still hasn't learned: there is a huge difference between most of the "Middleman Minority" being Jews, and all Jews being part of the "Middleman Minority."  Just because these positions of oppression were largely filled with Jewish people does not mean that every Jewish person was in one of these positions of oppression.  In fact, a large [CITATION] amount of them were quite poor.  To bring it back home, Jews back then were like a less superficial version of corporate bros today.  For the most part, business centric bros end up becoming simple blue collar alcoholics, but enough of them have gotten high paying jobs to make it seem like they are the physical embodiment of oppression.  Ironically, the only thing empowering business bros as a whole is the belief that they somehow represent CEOs and managers as a whole, rather the slightly more complex truth of them being over-represented, but not representative.  I'm going to repeat this again: being over-represented != being representative.  It's important.

[NEED STATS]
The vast majority of white supremacists are republicans, but less than xx percent of republicans are white supremacists.
The majority of homicides in NY are committed by blacks, but less than xx percent of blacks living in NY commit homicide.
The vast majority of CEOs and Managers are white males, but less than xx percent of white males are CEOs or Managers.
The majority of CEOs in the USAs media and financial industries are Jewish, but less than xx percent of Jewish people are CEOs in the media and financial industries.

[NEEDS A SIMPLE MEME PHRASE TO DESCRIBE]


Anyways, Jewish people were taking a very rational approach to the survival of their culture.  They were highly educated and motivated, and deserved high paying jobs just as much as anyone, if not more.  Truly, the only thing they were guilty of was caring more about the survival of their historically threatened culture over than the survival of general good people as a whole.  But this is something almost every culture does.  In Judaism it's called "being the chosen people," in Nazism it was called "Ubermenschen", in most other religions it's called "not being a sinner," in most scientific communities it's called "being logical," in some political movements it's called "being woke", in certain groups of white people it's called "white power," and in my mind it's called ignoring the voice in your brain that realizes being a good person is far more complex than a few binary traits and instead acting like a shitty tribalistic primate.  Of course there is a difference between being elitist and trying to commit genocide, but it's definitely not that one is okay.

But let's get back to the story, the stage is set.  You're a German.  You and your motherland have been humiliated, and the French keep on rubbing it in.  You haven't been eating well, there's no jobs, people are literally burning barrels of money for warmth, and it's been happening a whole lot lately that anytime you see someone who's living well they happen to be Jewish.  You're pissed off.  

In comes Hitler.

He's pissed off too.  He's not exactly what you were hoping for, but he's animated and it's exhilarating.  He believes in something, he believes in retaliation, he believes in kicking the Jews out of Germany into other countries.  You can get behind this because they really do seem to be taking all the good jobs and undermining society as a whole in the process.

Now you're a Nazi.

And then, the hype train really starts rolling...  It ends up Hitler wasn't just talking a bunch of shit, he's actually doing it!  Germany is regaining it's pride.  Your motherland is engineering so many beautifully crafted machines, your country men look downright dapper in their uniforms, you just stomped all over those fucking Frenchies, the economy is turning around, the empire is growing, and nobody can stand in your way.

Now everyone is Nazis. Glorious, triumphant, invincible, Nazis.  That's what all the posters and movies say.

Meanwhile, outside this teen romance of a genocide, things aren't really going so well as the propaganda says.  Fighting a war on all fronts is no easy task. Further, the culture of Nazism is built on anger and knee jerk reactions of hatred, so people are starting to out hate each other.  The higher up in Nazism you are, the more essential it is for you to really, really hate those Jews, Gypsies, Frogs, and basically anyone but the Aryan race.  And if you want to be high up, if you want that real glory, that good shit, the first step is to hate more.  

Then, in 1991919, it finally happens.  I'm glossing over a lot of stuff here, but it's been shown again and again in every WW2 film and History Channel documentary.  The war is not going as well as Germany had hoped.  It's low on resources, and it's having a hard time feeding its troops as well as all of these Jews that it can no longer afford to deport, even in the most degrading of conditions.  And so a man named Adolf Eichmann, an outright befuddlingly average guy who's been given the historical title of "the banality of evil," looks at the resources Nazi Germany has, and decides it would make more sense to exterminate Jews than it does to keep trying to deport them.  And I really want to emphasize, this guy was not some hyper charged Nazi extremist, or some cold hearted super villain with a crazy back story.  He was a total normie, who happened to be head of the department responsible for Jewish affairs—especially emigration.  To me, it is mind blowing that between Hitler and this completely unremarkable, run of the mill, default as fuck, npc of a person, it ends up Adolf Eichmann was the one to actually say "I think we should commit genocide," and Hitlers role was to give it the go.  Just some guy.

Anyways, from here is the part of the tragedy we all know.  The thing which most people consider synonymous to Hitler and Nazis: the Holocaust.  Whether or not all Nazis knew the full depth of what was going on is often a topic of debate, but most Historians agree all Germans were given ample clues.  "The Final Solution" was a huge endeavor, one which couldn't possibly be safe from rumor. 

But the real question here is why didn't they do anything about it!?  To which I pose another question: 

If you had to choose between believing you were a horrible monster of a human being or believing whatever narrative the people around you had created to pretend otherwise, which would you choose?  Do you really not know how many African children are working in slave conditions to mine the metals in your electronic devices?  Do you really not know how many Chinese children work in cramped dusty factories making all those little things with the "made in china" logo?  Worse yet, do you know how many full grown African and Chinese adults have already worked their entire childhoods away so we can afford our material distractions?  And if you eat meat, there is no way you are unaware of the so, so many animals which are forced through horrible lives just to be eaten?  Or, like me, do you just... let those thoughts float right on by.  Think of something else.

//Hover board, Kitten, Space, Music, Fitness, Nap, Sugary Drink, Movies

Well in any case we've finally arrived at the end of this basic overview.  I apologize for all the History and the darkness of it, but it was necessary to lay the groundwork for the initial question: who was more guilty, Hitler or those that followed him?

From here on, the video is purely subjective, based off my own ideas which I can't rightfully say are fact.

But I believe that Hitler was little more than a totem, the pop icon for the oppressed Germans and their hatred of oppression, a figure head spewing their misdirected anger.  He was the smug politician telling rural mid-westerners to kick out the Mexicans taking their jobs, he was the enraged SJW throwing around words like "racist" "bigot" and "misogynist" at anyone who shares too many surface traits in common with upper class people, and he is the most well known example in what goes wrong when a large group of people decide who is good and who is bad based on an oversimplified insider/outsider system.  

Hitler was the totem head on a totem pole of misdirected anger.  He did not originate or force the idea into existence, but he did believe in it, and when he found himself in the limelight created by a nation of people wanting change and too angry and tired to truly analyze the problem, he ran with it to the end.

And this is all to say, they're both equally guilty.  The Nazis and Hitler, they both made the same logical mistakes, one's we're still making today.  If Hitler hadn't rose to power, someone else would have and Hitler would have followed them.  And we are all doing these things that led to such evil.  We are all equating majority-representation to absolute representation.  We are all coming up with ways to say our culture is more important than some other one and deserves the resources more.  We are all having knee jerk reactions and failing to look into things, not even hearing a debate before we take a side.  But most of all, we are failing to take a good hard look at ourselves and realize the thing we want more than anything to ignore.

The dark truth is that we are all monsters and there really isn't much more to do about it than acknowledge it and fear it's implications.  It's not a fun idea, and especially not alone.  Then again, perhaps it wouldn't be so bad if we all admit this truth together:

Unless we recognize that the moment when our minds are thick with anger, we are the ignorant Nazis, we are the hateful Hitler, we are the petty French, and we are the elitist Jews... until we see ourselves for the primitive outsider-hating beasts we all are deep inside, unless we recognize that each of us is just as susceptible to the same logical fallacies every great atrocity stems from, and if we continue to act without understanding that every semblance of goodness we have is balanced precariously on our ability to keep our calm rationality from being overwhelmed by our hates, fears, and loves alike... until we internalize this knowledge, we have learned nothing.  If you do not believe in and admit to the monster inside you, you will not appropriately fear the short comings of your own mind, and you will spend your entire life being nothing more than a mental gymnast stepping on others and trying to feign innocence.

And to be clear, I certainly am no better.  In fact, I'm so much of this beast that I'm actually trying to come up with a formula for what makes one person more important than the other.  If you would like to help me rip it apart, and find all the loop holes that make it useless, please check out this video.  And please note, I'm not sharing this formula because I want people to accept it wholesale.  I'm sharing it because I want my own perspective to be refined by the soft barrage of hateful YouTube comments.

Thanks for watching, and please do take sometime to think about this and put it in your own words somewhere.  Those who don't process things for themselves are destined to be a burden on literally everyone.







