Men and Women Aren't Equal


Men and Women aren't the same.  There are some pretty obvious differences.  Such as, women can have babies.  And with babies comes a lot of responsibilities.  Responsibilities which needed to be done before history was even beginning to be written and learned from.  Even before language.
So those responsibilities were taken care of by a huge set of predispositions.  Lactating when a baby cries, an unbreakable bond upon birth, ferocity when necessary and avoidance when possible.  There are many, many advanced emotional responses that go into taking care of a baby in the wild.  It seems it would have been harder then, and it is hard now.
Speaking of now, we now have the mind, and many times we wish to believe that being animal is all behind us.  It certainly can be.  The prefrontal cortex is an amazing thing, and as long as it's kept in shape and given ample energy, its only constraints are the laws of physics and itself.
But keeping the prefrontal cortex running, specifically at some capacity great enough to outweigh every other part of the mind seems to only happen intermittently, and is perhaps not yet possible to do at all times.  I don't know what it's like in the mind of the most experienced meditators of the world, but my guess is that they exemplify what it means to keep engaged up there.

Where this matters though, and what this is all to say, is that what about the times where the higher mind fades?  It is common knowledge that all it takes is a little lack of water, sleep, or a few missed meals before even the sweetest of us become sour.  So what about then?  What happens?
In my belief, and a large part of the scientific communities as well, the mind steps back a bit.  It turns a bit mammalian at first, which is still pretty fine.  Many people operate on this level at pretty much all times in their life.  Through empathy, a form of group think sort of rocks and sways its way through possibilities, moving from one big thing to the next, each strangely interchangeable.  And are we free here in mammal land, with our minds this way?  Well, kind of, I'd say.  It's more like we become part of a much larger single free entity, which is really just an amalgamation of all the bends and pulls coming from each of our habitual states combined.  Habitual state being a key word here, a foreshadowing to be forward.
Then there's the reptilian mind.  I don't think it really much matters who you wish to see yourself as once this state is reached.  I don't think it matters who anybody thinks they are there.  It's a state of overwhelming instinct, a set of reactions passed down for literal millenia, as in thousands upon thousands of years.  When you reach this state, as a human, you'll probably have one of a handful of incredibly typical responses based largely on a scale from lots of estrogen to lots of testosterone, with a healthy dose of family genetics and a few very emotional passed personal and cultural experiences thrown in for good measure.  To put it bluntly, this is the state in which we all become "the reason for the stereotype."
But I've kind of been oversimplifying this a bit, and the truth is that the three minds, they aren't like this: 1, 2, 3.  They too are a scale.  They're all talking at the same time, each having come before the last.  It's not like the mammalian mind came into existence and suddenly the reptilian decided to shut up.  Nor is it like the moment mammal mind arrived it took full control of the wheel.  It had to earn it, little by little, and really only when the reptilian mind was at its quietest and most content.

You see, evolution is not a top down design process, but instead a haphazard game of chaos, where the only criteria is that you, at some point, end up making a baby to do it all again.  Because of this we aren't wired to be smart when times are hard, we're simply wired in a way that happens to allow smart when things are going easy.  Smart is risky.

And boy howdy, isn't it obvious how the hard times roll in by the way everyone is acting soooooo ugly?  Things are scary, people are on the offense, and even though the best thing we could do right now is probably meditate and maybe take some fighting classes and learn to shoot (seriously, it helps relieve stress (can you imagine living in the middle of nowhere?)), even though now is **absolutely** the time for the prefrontal to reign supreme, it simply doesn't work like that.
So, in an ironic twist, the more we lash out against our perceived boundaries, the more aggression that goes into the mix, the more twisted and frightened our psyches become, and the less capable of overcoming our animal instincts we are.

Also, on the note of the title, it's mostly just click bait, but I still believe it's true.  No two people are equal, not even yourself now and yourself five years ago, and those are literally the same person.  Equality, and I'm being a smart ass here, is kind of a conceptual product of math, and it only works because we made it so.  So, because men and women aren't mathematical constants, nor are any form of beings (maybe two identical copies of AI?)... well, shit.. what I'm trying to say is I'm a programmer.  I like the word equal because I use it constantly for things that are comparably the same.  Like numbers and bits of data.  But even beyond all this, I never could understand what the unit being compared with social equality was.  I think it was perhaps life potential, but men can't have babies like women, and white people get sunburnt more than black people who in turn can't tan as well as white people, and poor people don't have rich friends to get jobs from, and aren't we all supposed to be unique anyways?  It seems like "fairness" would be a word more suited here, because it doesn't imply a standard unit of measure beyond the perceivers moral sense.

Bah! The point is not this, but something about the way the mind works and pointing out the irony in any form of freedom fighting which leads to a lesser ability to think freely.  

tl;dr me yelling on the internet about yelling on the internet.  (Though I do believe self acknowledged short loop hypocrisy is one of the highest forms of critique)
