I was specifically designed by my parents to be a "computer geek."  At age 2, my father sat me at the computer and taught me to use DOS before I even knew what the letters and symbols on the keyboard were.  I still remember: D:// (return) to open the D drive followed by MATH or ABC or MICKEY to start a game.  When I was four, my father showed me windows, and I didn't like it as compared to DOS.

At age 10, I was given a computer in my bedroom and an Internet connection.  I found RPG Maker 2000, and began learning the basics of boolean logic, for-loops, variables, etc., but it wasn't enough.  I dug deeper and deeper into the program until I was making all sorts of hacks to get it to do the things it was never built to do.

Since then, I've continued down the path of getting computers to make whatever I think of, and branched out into every type of software and language as a result.  Anything 2D, 3D, or audio I've been playing with since high-school, but it's not just play.  I take my work seriously, its quality is tangential to my progress, so I aim not only to have high standards, but increasingly high ones.

The things I take most seriously in my code is for it to not be bloated, to use the newest tech while maintaining backwards compatibility, to be easy to read and maintain, and for it to be modular.  When working on my own personal projects, I also have a rule of using only code I wrote from scratch, because I really enjoy the things I learn from implementing my own forms of everything.

I've worked on very many small projects through my years.  You can see some of the recent ones (all made from scratch) on my portfolio http://sephreed.github.io/portfolio/ .  Of all the projects I have, PINE is the largest.  It is similar to Angular JS and React, and it's a very, very powerful tool.  I use it for all of my personal projects.

Because programming has been a passion that drives me easily, I've worked in other fields to learn the life lessons programming couldn't teach.  After years of rounding out my other interests, I feel ready and excited to settle into a full-time in-house programming job, where I can learn what it has to teach and how my studies (presently & future) might benefit your organization.